

.. index::
   Qt 4.7.2 released
   Qt Quick
   QML language

================================
Qt 4.7.2 has now been released !
================================

::

    andy.shaw@nokia.com
    heure de l'expéditeur   Envoyé à 11:30 (GMT+01:00). Heure locale : 14:06. ✆
    à   qt-announce@trolltech.com
    date    1 mars 2011 11:30
    objet   [Qt-announce] Qt 4.7.2 has now been released!


**Qt 4.7.2 has now been released.**

This is a maintenance release which contains bug-fixes based on feedback and
contributions since the Qt 4.7.1 release back in November.

.. note:: It also marks the official release of Qt Quick.

Qt Quick, QML language
======================


Qt Quick is a new feature within Qt that makes it easy to create light-weight
apps and UIs.

It contains the new QML language, the Qt Declarative module, and new tooling
in Qt Creator to easily build apps.

Packages are available from the Qt Download page, and for those who prefer to
get it directly from the public git repository at http://qt.gitorious.org, there
will be a “v4.7.2″ tag soon.

Thank you to all of you that have provided bug reports and/or bug fixes since
the Qt 4.7.1 release, some of these will have already been incorporated for
Qt 4.7.2 and there will be more coming in future releases.

If you want to see what has changed since Qt 4.7.1 then you can see the Qt 4.7.2
changelog and the list of bugs reported fixed for Qt 4.7.2 in the Qt Bug Tracker.

For a more detailed view then you can compare the changes between the v4.7.1
and v4.7.2 tags in the public git repository.

To provide feedback, you can use the Qt Bug Tracker. To contribute code,
documentation updates or autotests for Qt, then all you need to get started is
at http://qt.gitorious.org/.

Regards,
Qt Development Team





