
.. index::
   pair: git ; 1.7.0



.. _git_1.7.0:

==============
git 1.7.0
==============

.. seealso:: https://raw.github.com/gitster/git/master/Documentation/RelNotes/1.7.0.txt



Notes on behaviour change
-------------------------

 * "git push" into a branch that is currently checked out (i.e. pointed at by
   HEAD in a repository that is not bare) is refused by default.

   Similarly, "git push $there :$killed" to delete the branch $killed
   in a remote repository $there, when $killed branch is the current
   branch pointed at by its HEAD, will be refused by default.

   Setting the configuration variables receive.denyCurrentBranch and
   receive.denyDeleteCurrent to 'ignore' in the receiving repository
   can be used to override these safety features.

 * "git send-email" does not make deep threads by default when sending a
   patch series with more than two messages.  All messages will be sent
   as a reply to the first message, i.e. cover letter.

   It has been possible already to configure send-email to send "shallow thread"
   by setting sendemail.chainreplyto configuration variable to false.  The
   only thing this release does is to change the default when you haven't
   configured that variable.

 * "git status" is not "git commit --dry-run" anymore.  This change does
   not affect you if you run the command without argument.

 * "git diff" traditionally treated various "ignore whitespace" options
   only as a way to filter the patch output.  "git diff --exit-code -b"
   exited with non-zero status even if all changes were about changing the
   amount of whitespace and nothing else;  and "git diff -b" showed the
   "diff --git" header line for such a change without patch text.

   In this release, the "ignore whitespaces" options affect the semantics
   of the diff operation.  A change that does not affect anything but
   whitespaces is reported with zero exit status when run with
   --exit-code, and there is no "diff --git" header for such a change.

 * External diff and textconv helpers are now executed using the shell.
   This makes them consistent with other programs executed by git, and
   allows you to pass command-line parameters to the helpers. Any helper
   paths containing spaces or other metacharacters now need to be
   shell-quoted.  The affected helpers are GIT_EXTERNAL_DIFF in the
   environment, and diff.*.command and diff.*.textconv in the config
   file.

 * The --max-pack-size argument to 'git repack', 'git pack-objects', and
   'git fast-import' was assuming the provided size to be expressed in MiB,
   unlike the corresponding config variable and other similar options accepting
   a size value.  It is now expecting a size expressed in bytes, with a possible
   unit suffix of 'k', 'm', or 'g'.










