


.. _nick_coghlan_march_2013:

========================
Nick Coghlan March 2013
========================

.. contents::
   :depth: 3

Change future one small slice of pycon (Friday, March 22, 2013)
===============================================================

.. seealso::

   - http://www.boredomandlaziness.org/2013/03/change-future-one-small-slice-of-pycon.html
   - http://python-notes.boredomandlaziness.org/en/latest/conferences/pyconus2013/index.html

I'm currently kicking back in Red Hat's Mountain View office (I normally
work from the Brisbane office in Australia) after a lovely lunch with
some of the local Red Hatters, unwinding a bit and reflecting on an
absolutely amazing week at PyCon US 2013 just down the road in Santa Clara.

For me, it started last Wednesday with the Python Language Summit , an
at-least-annual-sometimes-biannual get together of the developers of
several major Python implementations, including CPython (the reference
interpreter), PyPy, Jython and IronPython. Even with a full day, there
were still a lot of interesting topics we didn't get to and will be
thrashing out on the mailing lists as usual.
However, good progress was made on a few of the more controversial items,
and there are definitely exciting developments in store for Python 3.4
(due in early 2014, probably shortly after PyCon in Montreal if past
history is anything to go by).

Thursday was a real eye-opener for me. While I did have to duck out at
one point for a meeting with a couple of the other CPython developers,
I spent most of it helping out at the second of the Young Coders tutorials
run by Katie Cunningham and Barbara Shaurette.

These tutorials were conducted using Raspberry Pi's with rented peripherals,
and the kids attending received both the Pi they were using as well as a
couple of introductory programming books.

Watching the class, and listening to Katie's and Barbara's feedback on
what they need from us in the core substantially changed my perspective
on what IDLE can (and, I think, should) become. Roger Serwy (the creator
of IdleX, a version of IDLE with various improvements) has now been
granted access to the CPython repo to streamline the process of fixing
the reference implementation, and we're working on plans to make the
behaviour of IDLE more consistent across all currently supported Python
versions (including Python 2.7). (Some aspects of this, especially Roger's
involvement, are similar to what happened years ago for Python 2.3
when Kurt B. Kaiser, the PSF's treasurer, shepherded the reintegration
of the IDLEfork project and its major enhancements to IDLE back into the
reference IDLE implementation in the Python standard library).


Helping to change the future (2013)
-----------------------------------

Friday saw the start of the conference proper, with inspirational keynotes
from Jesse Noller (conference chair and PSF board member) on helping to
change the future by changing the way we introduce the next generation
to the computers that are now an ever-present aspect of our lives, and
from Eben Upton (co-founder of the Raspberry Pi foundation), on how the
:ref:`Pi <pi>` came to be the educational project it is today,
and some thoughts  on how it might evolve into the future.



.. _nick_pi_pycon_2013:

Raspberry Pi pycon 2013
-----------------------

.. seealso::

   - http://raspberry.io/
   - http://www.mechanicalcat.net/richard/log/Python/How_awesome_was_PyCon

Jesse's keynote included the announcement that every attendee (all 2500
of them) would be receiving a free Raspberry Pi, and that any Pi's that
attendees didn't want to claim would be redistributed to various
educational groups and programs. Not only that, but Jesse also
announced http://raspberry.io/, a new site for sharing Raspberry Pi based
projects and resources, as well as a "Rasberry Pi Hack Lab" running for
the duration of the conference, where attendees could hook their Pi's up
to a keyboard and monitor, as well as experiment with various bits and
pieces of electronics donated by one of the conference sponsors.

Richard Jones also stepped up to run some additional short introductory
PyGame tutorials in the lab (he had run a full 3 hour session on PyGame
as part of the paid tutorials on the Wednesday and Thursday prior to the
conference).


.. _nick_packaging_ecosystem_2013:

Packaging 2013
--------------

.. seealso::

   - https://us.pycon.org/2013/schedule/presentation/34/
   - http://simeonfranklin.com/blog/2013/mar/17/my-pycon-2013-poster/
   - :ref:`python_packaging`


One key personal theme for the conference revolved around the fact that
I've volunteered to be Guido's delegate in making the final decisions on
how we reshape Python's packaging ecosystem in the lead up to the
Python 3.4 release.

I'll be writing quite a bit more on that topic over the coming weeks, so
here I'll just note that it started with proposing some changes to the
Python Enhancement Proposal process at the language summit on the
Wednesday, continued through the announcement of the coming
setuptools/distribute merger on Thursday, the "packaging and distribution"
mini-summit I organised for developers on the Friday night,
the "Directions in Packaging" Q&A panel we conducted on the Saturday
afternoon, some wonderful discussions with Simeon Franklin on his blog
regarding the way the current packaging and distributions issues detract
from Python's beginner friendliness and on into various interesting
discussions, proposals and development at the sprints in the days following
the conference.

Unfortunately, I didn't actually get to meet Simeon in person, even though
I had flagged his poster as one I really wanted to go see during the
poster session.

PyCon Jobs Fair
----------------

Instead, I spent that time at the Red Hat booth in the PyCon Jobs Fair.
The Jobs Fair is a wonderful idea from the conference organisers that,
along with the Expo Hall, recognises the multi-role nature of PyCon: as
a community conference for sharing and learning (through the summits,
scheduled talks, lightning talks, poster session, open spaces,
paid tutorials, Young Coders sessions, Raspberry Pi hack lab, and
sprints), as a way for sponsors to advertise their services to developers
(through the Expo Hall and sponsor tutorials) and as a way for sponsors
to recruit new developers (through the Jobs Fair).
PyCon has long involved elements of all of these things (albeit perhaps
not at the scale achieved this year), but having the separate Expo Hall
and Jobs Fair helps keep sales and recruitment activity from bleeding
into the community parts of the conference, while still giving sponsors
a suitable opportunity to connect with the development community.

Both at the Jobs Fair and during the rest of the conference, I was
explaining to anyone that was willing to listen what I see as Red Hat's
role in bridging the vast gulf between open source software enthusiasts
(professionals and amateurs alike) and people for whom software is merely
a tool that either helps (hopefully) or hinders (unfortunately far
too often) them in spending time on their actual job/project/hobby/etc.

Red hat pycon 2013
-------------------

.. seealso:: http://beaker-project.org/

I also spent a lot of time talking to people about my actual day job.
I'm the development lead for one of the test systems at Red Hat, and
while it is very good at what it does (full stack integration testing
from hardware, through the OS and up into application software), it also
needs to integrate well with other systems like autotest and OpenStack
if we're going to avoid pointlessly reinventing a lot of very complicated
wheels.

Learning more about what those projects are currently capable of makes
it easier for me to prioritize the things we work on, and make suitable
choices about Beaker's overall architecture.

Mailman 3
----------

At the sprints, in addition to working on CPython and some packaging
related questions, I also took the opportunity to catch up with the
Mailman 3 developers - the open source world needs an email/web forum
gateway that at least isn't actively awful, and the combination of
Mailman 3 with the hyperkitty archiver is shaping up to be positively
wonderful.

Talks
------

.. seealso::

   - http://newcoder.io/
   - https://speakerdeck.com/pyconslides/
   - http://www.pyvideo.org/category/33/pycon-us-2013

I didn't spend the entire conference weekend talking to people - I
actually got to go see a few talks as well. All of the talks I attended
were excellent, but some particular personal highlights were:

- `Mike Bayer's deep dive into SQL Alchemy's`_ session behaviour,
- the panel on the Boston Python Workshop and a number of other BPW
  inspired education and outreach events,
- Mel Chua's whirlwind tour of educational psychology,
- `Lynn Root's educational projects`_ for new coders (with `accompanying website`_),
- Dave Malcolm's follow-up on his efforts with static analysis of all of
  the CPython extensions in Fedora,
- and `Dave Beazley's ventures`_ into automated home manufacturing of wooden
  toys (and destruction of laptop hard drives).

There were plenty of other talks that looked interesting but I
unfortunately didn't get to (one of the few downsides of having so many
impromptu hallway conversations).

All the PyCon US 2013 talks should be showing up on pyvideo.org_ as the
presenters give the thumbs up, and the `presentation slides`_ are also
available, so it's worth trawling through the respective lists for the
topics that interest you.

.. _`Mike Bayer's deep dive into SQL Alchemy's`: https://us.pycon.org/2013/schedule/presentation/88/
.. _`Dave Beazley's ventures`: https://us.pycon.org/2013/schedule/presentation/222/
.. _`Lynn Root's educational projects`: https://us.pycon.org/2013/schedule/presentation/144/
.. _`accompanying website`: http://newcoder.io/
.. _`presentation slides`: https://speakerdeck.com/pyconslides/
.. _pyvideo.org: http://www.pyvideo.org/category/33/pycon-us-2013

Python site redesign
--------------------

.. seealso::

   - http://preview.python.org/


In the midst of all that, Van Lindberg (PSF chairman) revealed the first
public draft of the redesigned python.org (I was one of the members of
the review committee that selected Project Evolution, RevSys and Divio
as the drivers of this initial phase of the redesign process), and also
announced the successful resolution of the PSF's trademark dispute in
the EU.

This was only my second PyCon in North America (I've been to all three
Australian PyCons, and attended PyCon India last year) and the first
since I joined Red Hat.
Meeting old friends from around the world, meeting other Pythonistas
that I only knew by reputation or through Twitter and email, and meeting
fellow Red Hatters that I had previously only met through IRC and email
was a huge amount of fun.

Attending the PyLadies charity auction, visiting the Computer History
Museum with Guido van Rossum, Ned Deily and Dwayne Litzenberger
(from Dropbox), chatting with Stephen Turnbull about promoting the
adoption of open source and open source development practices in Japan,
and getting to tour a small part of the Googleplex were just a few of
the interesting bonus events from the week (and now I have a few days
vacation to do the full tourist thing here in SFO).

I'm still on an adrenaline high, and there are at least a dozen different
reasons why.

If everything above isn't enough, **there were a few other exciting
developments happening behind the scenes that I can't go into
yet. Fortunately, the details of those should become public over the
next few weeks so I won't need to contain myself too long**

This week was intense, but awesome. All the organisers, volunteers and
sponsors that played a part in bringing it together should be proud :)


Panel: Directions for Packaging, PyCon US 2013, March 16, 2013
==============================================================

.. seealso::

   - http://www.pyvideo.org/video/1731/panel-directions-for-packaging

What needs to happen to finally offer a first-class packaging experience
to Python users? Several of the people working directly on that problem
will be here to answer your questions.

Speakers:

- Daniel Holth,
- Éric Araujo,
- Jason R. Coombs,
- Jim Fulton,
- Marcus Smith,
- Richard Jones,
- Nick Coghlan

