

.. index::
   pair: Ministro ; Necessitas

.. _ministro_24_mars_2013:

=============================================================================
New Ministro version and new features, help needed to test it (24 mars 2013)
=============================================================================

.. seealso::

   - :ref:`necessitas`


.. contents::
   :depth: 3


Email
=====

::

    Sujet:  New Ministro version and new features, help needed to test it
    Date :  Sun, 24 Mar 2013 19:52:36 +0200
    De :    BogDan Vatra <taipanromania@gmail.com>
    Répondre à :    android-qt@googlegroups.com
    Pour :  android-qt <android-qt@googlegroups.com>, Necessitas <necessitas-devel@kde.org>


Hello folks,

I have good news about Qt and Ministro. 

As you may already know, Necessitas (me and Ray) and Qt Project/Digia 
joined our forces to port Qt5 on Android. 

This is the main reason for why I didn't had time to update Necessitas 
anymore, but after we'll ship Qt 5.1 I promise you that we'll do an 
update for necessitas with the most annoying issues fixed. 

If at the beginning I was a little bit skeptical about Qt5 completeness, 
now I can tell that it is at least as good as Qt4, so I think it worth 
at least try it when it will be out.

To support Qt5, I had to do a few changes to Ministro, because I
wanted to give you folks a little more than just Qt5 support, I added
a new feature which I hope will make Ministro even more appealing. 

It's about the possibility to add any sources for any libraries you want
Ministro to download from. To use this new feature you need to change
your java part similar with this patch::

    https://codereview.qt-project.org/#change,51821 . 
    
I'd like to tell you a little bit more about the how it will works. 

Let's say that an application has two sources: s1, and s2, s1 has 3 libs 
(l1,l2 and l3) and s2 has 2 libs (l3 and l4) as you can see l3 is in both
repositories. Ministro downloads each source intro its own folder, so
s1 will be downloaded in /ministro/home/folder/dl/01/... and s2 will
go in /ministro/home/folder/dl/02/... so l3 will NOT be overwritten on
disk! 

What happens if the application needs l3 library? Which one Ministro 
will choose? Ministro will always choose the one from the last source, 
so is extremely important to pass the sources in the right order, so in 
this case it will choose l3 from s2. 

What happens if another application uses only s1 and it needs l3? Of 
course l3 will come from s1. Using this feature an application can 
"overwrite" one (or more) libs from official Qt sourse, but still use 
the rest of them.

In order to create a source for Ministro you can use "ministrorepogen" 
tool from  

- https://projects.kde.org/projects/playground/mobile/necessitas/necessitas-tools/repository

Sadly I didn't had enough time to write any documentation but here:

- https://projects.kde.org/projects/playground/mobile/necessitas/necessitas-tools/repository/revisions/master/entry/build_sdk.sh#L1899

you can see how we are using it to build a source for Necessitas.

The new Ministro can be downloaded from:

- http://files.kde.org/necessitas/installer/release/Ministro II v9.1.apk

How to test and what to test: Ministro *MUST* be back compatible,
so, first thing you should test is if your application still works
with the new version. Please try different scenarios: e.g. install the
new Ministro on top of the existing one, in this case the new Ministro
should migrate the old Qt installation and it should NOT download any
libraries and of course, your application should just work. Also try a
fresh installation of the new version.

Please report any problems on this thread.

If no one reports *NO* bug(s)/regression(s) in two weeks, I'l update
it on all android markets ( Google Play, Amazon, Samsung), otherwise
the two weeks period will be extended until Ministro will be
bugs/regressions free.

Ministro 9.x full change log 
============================

- Ministro supports multiple sources, the application can set the 
  sources of its libraries.
- The application can set the repository.
- Ministro recheck the sha1 sum of all downloaded files if it was not 
  shutdown correctly.

Cheers,
BogDan.
