

.. _wikidata_april_24_2013:

=======================================================
Wikidata all around the world 24. April 2013, 20:53 Uhr
=======================================================

.. seealso::

   - http://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:Contribute
   - http://blog.wikimedia.de/2013/03/27/you-can-have-all-the-data/
   - http://blog.wikimedia.de/2013/04/22/and-that-makes-12/
   - http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Wikidata/Deployment_Questions
   - http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Talk:Wikidata/Deployment_Questions
   - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_talk:Commons_category#Edit_request_on_24_April_2013:_Check_Wikidata_errors
   - :ref:`wikidata_linuxfr_2012`


Introduction
=============

Since one month `11 Wikipedias`_ have the ability to include data from 
Wikidata in their articles. 

Two days ago `English Wikipedia`_ was added to that group. 

Today the remaining 274 are joining. `Usage examples`_ are in the last 
blog entry. There is also an FAQ_ for this deployment.

This is a huge step for Wikidata and at the same time also another 
beginning. 

**It’s a huge step because from now on all Wikipedias are able to collect, 
curate and use data together**. 

For example every Wikipedia can query the ID of a movie on the Internet 
Movie Database and use it in their article as soon as someone added it 
to Wikidata. At the same time it is a beginning because there is still 
a lot to do. Accessing the data has to be made easier. 

More data has to be added to Wikidata (and translated where necessary). 
More sources have to be added to existing claims. 
More data types need to be made available – for example geocoordinates 
and time. Your help_ and your Feedback_ is very welcome and important there.

We’re looking forward to the next steps!


.. _help:  http://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:Contribute
.. _`11 Wikipedias`:  http://blog.wikimedia.de/2013/03/27/you-can-have-all-the-data/
.. _`English Wikipedia`:   http://blog.wikimedia.de/2013/04/22/and-that-makes-12/
.. _FAQ:  http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Wikidata/Deployment_Questions
.. _`Usage examples`: http://blog.wikimedia.de/2013/04/22/and-that-makes-12/
.. _Feedback:  http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Talk:Wikidata/Deployment_Questions


Wikidata en
===========

.. seealso::

   - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Requests_for_comment/Wikidata_Phase_2
   
::
   
    Denny Vrandečić <denny.vrandecic@wikimedia.de>
    répondre à:	 "Discussion list for the Wikidata project." <wikidata-l@lists.wikimedia.org>
    à:	
    cc:	 MediaWiki Tech list <wikitech-l@lists.wikimedia.org>,
    Wikidata list <wikidata-l@lists.wikimedia.org>
    date:	 25 avril 2013 11:52

   
I am completely amazed by a particularly brilliant way that Wikipedia 
uses Wikidata. Instead of simply displaying the data from Wikidata and 
removing the local data, a template and workflow is proposed, which...

* grabs the relevant data from Wikidata
* compares it with the data given locally in the Wikipedia
* displays the Wikipedia data
* adds a maintenance category in case the data is different

This allows both communities to check the maintenance category, provide 
a security net for vandal changes, still notice if some data has changed, 
etc. -- and to phase out the local data over time when they get comfortable 
and if they want to. It is a balance of maintenance effort and data quality.

I am not saying that is the right solution in every use case, for every 
topic, for every language. But it is a perfect example how the community 
will surprise us by coming up with ingenious solutions if they get 
enough flexibility, powerful tools, and enough trust.

Yay, Wikipedia!

The workflow is described here: 

- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_talk:Commons_category#Edit_request_on_24_April_2013:_Check_Wikidata_errors

There is an RFC currently going on about whether and how to use Wikidata 
data in the English Wikipedia, coming out of the discussion that was here 
a few days ago. If you are an English Wikipedian, you might be interested: 

- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Requests_for_comment/Wikidata_Phase_2   

 
