

==================================
Distil 0.1.1 Released: 2013-04-30
==================================


- Added distil init to support creating an initial version of package.json metadata, 
  which can then be added to during development.
- Added distil link to support “editable” installations, similar to pip install 
  -e local_dir.
- Take into account pre-confirmation (-y) during uninstallation when dists that 
  are no longer needed are found. These are now removed automatically when 
  -y is specified.
- Fixed error in setting up SSL certificate verification, and adjusted PyPI 
  URLs to be https:// where specified as http:// in metadata. 
  Successful SSL verification is now logged.
- Added --local-dists option to allow local wheels and sdists to be used for 
  installation.
- F ixed a bug in the handling of local archives (e.g. those returned through a 
  configured DirectoryLocator). Local archives shouldn’t be deleted after unpacking.
- Added --python-tags argument to distil package when building wheels to configure 
  the tags for the built wheel.
- Added --no-unpack option to distil download.
- Fixed problem with rollback on error caused by not recording SHARED and RECORD correctly.
- Fixed bug in writing entry points (EXPORTS) file.
- Use of 2to3 now defaults to True when run under 3.x.
- Fixed bug when run in venvs which caused e.g. dist-packages to be used instead 
  of site-packages.
- Improved error message when run with Python 2.5 (not supported, but this is 
  now clear from the error message).
- Numerous documentation updates.

