


.. _docker_3_june_2013:

===============================================================
Solomon Hykes explains docker (3 june 2013)
===============================================================



.. seealso::

   - http://www.activestate.com/blog/2013/06/solomon-hykes-explains-docker
   
 
.. contents::
   :depth: 3   


Phil Whelan, June 03, 2013
===========================

I just had a call with Solomon Hykes from dotCloud about Docker, who gave me 
the low-down about Docker.

What is Docker ?
=================

Docker brings the power of Linux containers (LXC) and aufs (Another Union File System) 
to create a new level of packaging and process isolation that really is something 
you should sit up and take note of.


The first thing to mention about Docker is that it is a single executable daemon. 
That means it is easy to download and start running docker images on your 
Linux-based operating system. This docker daemon manages the docker processes, 
which run inside of LXC containers.

A docker process is an instance of a docker image, and a docker image has one 
primary process that will run when you instantiate it.

Have a spare 100 milliseconds and you want to run CouchDB? “docker run couchdb”. 
A second later CouchDB will be running in an isolated container. It will be unaware 
that it is running inside of Docker.

Want to run a headless Firefox with a VNC interface under Suse Linux? Just run 
the docker image for that. Want to run 20 instances of that docker image on the 
same machine? Just run “docker run” 20 times. 

Each process thinks it is binding to the same port. Suddenly you are testing a 
Cassandra or Hadoop cluster on one machine


