
.. index::
   pair: Bash; 4.3
   

.. _bash_4.3:

===========================================
Bash 4.3 (Thu, 27 Feb 2014 08:12:56 -0500)
===========================================


.. seealso::
  
   - http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/info-gnu/2014-02/msg00010.html


.. contents::
   :depth: 3

Description
===========

This release fixes many outstanding bugs in bash-4.2 and introduces several
new features.  The most significant bug fix is the reworking of signal
handling to avoid running signal and trap handlers in a signal handler
context.  This led to issues with glibc, which uses internal locks
extensively and handles longjmps from user code very poorly.

The most notable new features are the globasciiranges shell option, which
forces the pattern matching code to treat [a-z] as if in the C locale;
nameref variables and the changes to allow assigning, referencing, and
unsetting them; improvements to the 'direxpand' option introduced in bash-4.2
patch 29; and allowing negative subscripts when assigning and referencing
indexed array elements.

There is one incompatible change between bash-4.2 and bash-4.3.  
``Bash`` now performs quote removal on the replacement string in pattern substitution
(${param/pat/rep}), since the shell treats quotes as special.  
If you have to quote single quotes to get them to be treated literally, the shell
should perform quote removal on them.

Read the file NEWS in the bash-4.3 distribution for a complete description
of the new features.  A copy of the relevant portions is included below. 
