
.. index::
   pair: 5.5.3;   Innosetup


.. _innosetup_5.5.3:

===================
Innosetup 5.5.3
===================




- Windows 8 change: [Icons] section flag excludefromshowinnewinstall now 
  additionally prevents the new shortcut from being automatically pinned the Start screen.
- Added new command line parameters supported by Setup: /HELP and /?. 
  Cause Setup to display the list of accepted command line parameters in a message box, 
  exiting with exit code 0 afterwards. Ignored if the UseSetupLdr [Setup] section directive was set to no.
  
  
Added new command line parameter supported by Inno Setup's own installer: /PORTABLE=1. 
Causes Inno Setup's own installer to not create an uninstaller nor an entry in 
the Add/Remove Programs Control Panel applet. Also supported by QuickStart Pack's installer.

Added workaround for bug in 64-bit Windows which in some cases would cause 
Windows to display an error message when a user tries to change the icon of 
an installed shortcut.

Updated the compiler and document icons, created by Motaz.

Restart Manager: If Setup is not running silently and is unable to close all 
applications using files that need to be updated, it will now ask the user to 
abort, retry, or ignore. Previously it always ignored.

A message has been added in this version. (View differences in Default.isl)
    New message: ErrorCloseApplications.
    
Added official Corsican and Nepali translations. 

The Nepali translation requires Unicode Inno Setup.

Inno Setup Preprocessor (ISPP) changes
======================================

- Added directive #redim to increase or decrease the dimension of an existing
  array variable.
- Added function DimOf. Returns the dimension of the specified identifier.

Pascal Scripting changes
==========================

- Added new function: ExtractTemporaryFiles. This function is like ExtractTemporaryFile 
  but supports wildcards and doesn't ignore directory information.
- When ExtractTemporaryFile or ExtractTemporaryFiles extracts a file, this is 
  now logged.
- Unicode Inno Setup: Now has an Int64 type, supported by IntToStr. Also added 
  new StrToInt64, StrToInt64Def, and GetSpaceOnDisk64 support functions.
  
If the Flags parameter of a [Files] entry includes isreadme and the entry also 
has a BeforeInstall or AfterInstall parameter, the BeforeInstall or AfterInstall 
functions will now only be called when the file is installed and no longer a 
second time when the file is viewed after the installation has completed.

[Setup] section directive VersionInfoProductTextVersion, which sets the textual 
product version value, is now truncated at 50 characters instead of 20. 

Contributed by Lukas G (AIS) via GitHub.

The Inno Setup help file source code has been moved into the main Inno Setup 
source code repository.

Fix: [Setup] section directive CloseApplicationsFilter was partially case sensitive.

Unicode [Code] based on RemObjects Pascal Script Git commit 31abd2925837d85a6965b5325e8fb7835ca73ea8.

QuickStart Pack: No longer offers to download and install InnoIDE (which is no 
longer maintained by its author) unless /ALLOWINNOIDE=1 is specified on the 
command line. 

If you're still using InnoIDE it is recommended you switch to Inno Script Studio 
(which QuickStart pack can download and install).

Minor tweaks.



