

.. index::
   pair: Articles ; Replicant (2014)


.. _replicant_rmll_2014:

==============================================
Replicant Operating system RMLL 2014
==============================================


.. seealso::

   - http://ftp-osl.osuosl.org/pub/replicant/videos/replicant_software_freedom_on_mobile_devices/replicant_software_freedom_on_mobile_devices.webm


.. contents::
   :depth: 3

Introduction
=============

For the record, I have submitted 3 talks proposals with the following
descriptions. Erik, I hope we don't end up covering the same topics (or
perhaps that won't be an issue). The first talk about Replicant will
more or less be similar to:
http://ftp-osl.osuosl.org/pub/replicant/videos/replicant_software_freedom_on_mobile_devices/replicant_software_freedom_on_mobile_devices.webm

Replicant: software freedom on mobile devices
==============================================

This talk will present Replicant as part of the effort to reach software
freedom on (telephony-enabled) mobile devices. First, it will introduce
the major freedom issues that are encountered on these devices, as well
as considerations regarding the security of these devices and the
communications made with them, from an ideal scenario to what the
reality actually is today. The talk will then focus on the proprietary
parts needed by most open source mobile operating system and how
Replicant comes into play. Various community Android versions will be
mentionned, as well as other systems such as Firefox OS or Ubuntu Touch.
An overview of what was accomplished by the Replicant project over the
years will then be mentioned, as well as the challenges we are currently
facing and the current state of the project. Finally, a demonstration of
Replicant running on various devices will be shown!

An overview of Replicant development
=====================================

This technical talk will describe how free replacements for the
user-space proprietary components (in charge of the hardware) are
developed by the Replicant project. Numerous examples of the general
approach we use for figuring out what these proprietary parts actually
do will be given. The intent of this talk is to highlight how reverse
engineering such proprietary programs is often not as hard as it sounds
and can in fact be accomplished without particular knowledge of very
advanced techniques. The talk also intends to demonstrate that getting
involved in the project only requires basic programming knowledge, time
and a good share of curiosity and ingeniosity! Replicant is currently a
one-man effort, hence particularly looking forward to seeing new
developers getting involved.

ARM devices and your freedom
=============================

Over this talk, various aspects of the platforms built around the ARM
architecture will be reviewed from the perspective of software freedom.
First, it will introduce what ARM is and the concept of System on a Chip
(SoC) as well as the different form factors and use cases for ARM
devices. An overview of the various hardware platforms that use the ARM
architecture will then be drawn, along with comparisons between these
platforms regarding software freedom. The communities build around some
of these platforms will also be introduced. The talk will put the
emphasis on the free software and systems available for each platform.
