

.. _sqlalchemy_0.8.0:

====================================================
Sqlalchemy 0.8.0 (March 09, 2013)
====================================================


.. seealso::

   - http://www.sqlalchemy.org/blog/#sqlalchemy-0.8.0-released
   - http://www.sqlalchemy.org/docs/changelog/migration_08.html#rewritten-relationship-mechanics
   - http://www.sqlalchemy.org/docs/08/changelog/migration_08.html
   - http://www.sqlalchemy.org/changelog/CHANGES_0_8_0

SQLAlchemy release 0.8.0 final is now available.

This release now sets 0.8 as the official production series of SQLAlchemy, 
following two beta releases.

Version 0.8 marks the most consistent, extensible and performant version of 
SQLAlchemy to date. 

The development cycle for 0.8 has been particularly long, starting in April of 
2012 with a rewrite of the internals of the relationship() construct, followed 
by the addition of a significant amount of new functionality regarding 
"polymorphic" querying, and later into a major upgrade to the typing system, 
including an extensible operator system and type-specific SQL expression support.

Some major new features include:

- New Relationship Features
- New Polymorphic Features - with_polymorphic() and of_type()
- New Runtime Inspection System
- Extensible Operator System
- HSTORE Support

In addition, a new API for external dialects, along with an associated 
test suite, allows third-party dialects to be organized and tested in a 
consistent manner. 

Several new or updated SQLAlchemy dialects make use of this system, most 
notably an all new version of IBM DB2 for SQLAlchemy as well as sqlalchemy-akiban.

Beyond the major new additions, SQLAlchemy internals and tests continue to be 
improved and simplified. 

Long functions and classes have been broken out into compositions of small 
functions, which are easier to understand as well as to unit test; 

tests themselves are being moved from long lists of assertions within a single 
test into small units each containing a single assertion, with an emphasis on 
testing smaller units of functionality more exhaustively. 

The test suite has now surpassed 5000 individual tests, which are run via 
continuous integration against a variety of Python platforms and DBAPI 
implementations using on-demand Amazon EC2 instances. 

Coverage is also high: sqlalchemy.orm is at 95%, sqlalchemy.sql is at 94%, 
sqlalchemy.ext.declarative is at 99%.

For a full overview of major features and behavioral changes in SQLAlchemy, 
refer to the What's New? document. 

For a detailed list of changes in 0.8 and throughout the 0.8 series, refer to 
the Changelog_.

SQLAlchemy 0.8.0 is available for download on the Download Page.

.. _Changelog:  http://www.sqlalchemy.org/changelog/CHANGES_0_8_0
