

.. index::
   pair: GPG ; 2.0.18


.. _gnu_privacy_guard_2_0_18:

===============================
GNU Privacy Guard 2.0.18
===============================

.. seealso:: http://lists.gnupg.org/pipermail/gnupg-announce/2011q3/000312.html


::

    Werner Koch wk at gnupg.org
    Thu Aug 4 18:16:14 CEST 2011
    Previous message: [Announce] GPGME 1.3.1 released
    Messages sorted by: [ date ] [ thread ] [ subject ] [ author ]

Hello!

We are pleased to announce the availability of a new stable GnuPG-2
release:  Version 2.0.18.

The GNU Privacy Guard (GnuPG) is GNU's tool for secure communication
and data storage.  It can be used to encrypt data, create digital
signatures, help authenticating using Secure Shell and to provide a
framework for public key cryptography.  It includes an advanced key
management facility and is compliant with the OpenPGP and S/MIME
standards.

**GnuPG-2 has a different architecture than GnuPG-1 (e.g. 1.4.11) in
that it splits up functionality into several modules.**

However, both versions may be installed alongside without any conflict.

In fact, the gpg version from GnuPG-1 is able to make use of the gpg-agent as
included in GnuPG-2 and allows for seamless passphrase caching.

The advantage of GnuPG-1 is its smaller size and the lack of dependency on
other modules at run and build time.

We will keep maintaining GnuPG-1 versions because they are very useful for
small systems and for server based applications requiring only OpenPGP support.

GnuPG is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License(GPLv3+).  

GnuPG-2 works best on GNU/Linux and * BSD systems but is also available for other 
Unices, Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X.


What's New
===========

* Bug fix for newer versions of Libgcrypt.

* Support the SSH confirm flag and show SSH fingerprints in ssh
  related pinentries.

* Improved dirmngr/gpgsm interaction for OCSP.

* Allow generation of card keys up to 4096 bit.
