

.. _liclipse_28_june_2013:

======================================================
Courriels LiClipse (Lightweight Eclipse) 28 june 2013
======================================================


.. seealso::

   - https://groups.google.com/d/forum/liclipse


.. contents::
   :depth: 3

Introduction
=============

Hello Vergain,

I'm happy to announce that the first early-access release for LiClipse (0.1.0) 
is now available.

As a backer who got early access to LiClipse releases, I'm e-mailing you to give 
you details on how to access it.

.. note:: this is the only direct e-mail I'll be posting (as it contains your 
   license to use LiClipse). 

To keep up with new announcements, **please join the related google group at**:

- https://groups.google.com/d/forum/liclipse (and then properly choose how you want to receive messages).


Release details
================

.. seealso::

   - https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/liclipse/0jZGE1C5KwI

for the announcement of the release, install instructions and general details 
on LiClipse.


Install
========

To install it, download from the link you received, unzip it where you want and 
then execute the liclipse/LiClipse executable (currently an update site is not 
provided, so, this is the only way to install it).


3. The languages supported in this release are
==============================================


JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, CoffeScript, C/C++, Python (each with varying degrees of support)

The files that define a language may be found at: 

- plugins/com.brainwy.liclipse.editor/languages

as such, it's possible to create your own language (or improve an existing language) 
based on those. 

Documentation is still lacking, which will be something addressed in a future 
release -- remember that this is an early access release, so, there may be some 
rough edges :)

On the customization, it's important to note that the outline, syntax highlighting, 
navigation (i.e.: Ctrl+Shift+Up/Down), commenting (Ctrl+/) and indenting may be 
customized just by editing the .liclipse language file (and most things can be 
changed and just reopening the editor will pick up those changes without having 
to restart Eclipse).

Currently template support is already available (but only the JavaScript language 
has templates added -- and only 3... I'll add more templates -- to more languages 
-- in the future, but you can already create your own templates if you want).


4. Advanced customizations
===========================

Some advanced customizations are already available in this release -- and those 
can't currently be configured from the language files (so, those actually require 
creating an Eclipse plugin for now):

- The JavaScript editor has JSHint integrated to check for errors on save and 
  Beautify.js to format source code (Ctrl+Shift+F).

- The HTML editor has Validator.nu integrated to check for errors on save and 
  Jericho to format source code (Ctrl+Shift+F).

- The XML editor uses Java builtin parsers to validate on save and format source 
  code (Ctrl+Shift+F).


5. Themeing
===========

Upon startup, you'll be asked to select your basic theme preferences. 

If you like dark themes, there's already an option for that... you may change 
the LiClipse theme/colors later on at Preferences > Appearance > Color Theme 
(note the selection on the scope you want to apply the theme to: just the liclipse 
editors, all editors, known views (which is  or the whole IDE, which includes 
any dialog created) -- and if you want to revert to the Eclipse 3 or Eclipse 4 UI, 
you have to change the selection there to 'just liclipse' or 'all editors' and 
also select the appropriate theme in Preferences > Appearance.


6. Features and Bugs
=====================


If you have any requests or find bugs, please enter them at the LiClipse tracker 
at https://sw-brainwy.rhcloud.com


7. Enjoy!
==========
