

.. index::
   pair: Python2.7 ; Exe (py2exe)


.. _python_to_exe_2.7:

=======================
Py2exe for Python 2.7
=======================


Requirements
=============


.. seealso::

   - http://aka.ms/vcpython27


.. seealso::

   - https://mail.python.org/pipermail/distutils-sig/2014-September/024885.html
   
   
	Hi all,

	(This is advance notice since people on this list will be interested. 
	Official announcements are coming when setuptools makes their next 
	release.)

	Microsoft has released a compiler package targeting Python 2.7 
	(i.e. VC9). 
	We've produced this package to help library developers build wheels 
	for Windows, but also to help users unblock themselves when they need 
	to build C extensions themselves.

	The Microsoft Visual C++ Compiler for Python 2.7 is available 
	from: http://aka.ms/vcpython27

	This package contains all the tools and headers required to build 
	C extension modules for Python 2.7 32-bit and 64-bit (note that some 
	extension modules require 3rd party dependencies such as OpenSSL or 
	libxml2 that are not included). 
	Other versions of Python built with Visual C++ 2008 are also supported.

	You can install the package without requiring administrative 
	privileges and, with the latest version of setuptools (when it releases), 
	use tools such as pip, wheel, or a setup.py file to produce binaries 
	on Windows.

	Unfortunately, this package isn't necessarily going to help with 
	building CPython 2.7 itself, as the build process is complicated 
	and Visual Studio 2008 is practically required. 
	However, as most people aren't building CPython on Windows, this 
	isn't a huge issue. This compiler package should be sufficient for 
	most extension modules.

	I should also point out that VC9 is no longer supported by Microsoft. 
	This means there won't be any improvements or bug fixes coming, and 
	there's no official support offered. 
	Feel free to contact me directly <steve.dower@microsoft.com> if there 
	are issues with the package.

	Cheers,
	Steve


