

.. index::
   pair: sphinx ; 1.1

.. _sphinx_1.1:

Release 1.1 (Oct 9, 2011)
=========================

.. seealso::

   - http://sphinx-doc.org/changes.html#release-1-1-oct-9-2011
   
   

Incompatible changes
--------------------

* The :rst:dir:`py:module` directive doesn't output its ``platform`` option
  value anymore.  (It was the only thing that the directive did output, and
  therefore quite inconsistent.)

* Removed support for old dependency versions; requirements are now:

  - Pygments >= 1.2
  - Docutils >= 0.7
  - Jinja2   >= 2.3

Features added
--------------

* Added Python 3.x support.

* New builders and subsystems:

  - Added a Texinfo builder.
  - Added i18n support for content, a ``gettext`` builder and related
    utilities.
  - Added the ``websupport`` library and builder.
  - #98: Added a ``sphinx-apidoc`` script that autogenerates a hierarchy
    of source files containing autodoc directives to document modules
    and packages.
  - #273: Add an API for adding full-text search support for languages
    other than English.  Add support for Japanese.

* Markup:

  - #138: Added an :rst:role:`index` role, to make inline index entries.
  - #454: Added more index markup capabilities: marking see/seealso entries,
    and main entries for a given key.
  - #460: Allowed limiting the depth of section numbers for HTML using the
    :rst:dir:`toctree`\'s ``numbered`` option.
  - #586: Implemented improved :rst:dir:`glossary` markup which allows
    multiple terms per definition.
  - #478: Added :rst:dir:`py:decorator` directive to describe decorators.
  - C++ domain now supports array definitions.
  - C++ domain now supports doc fields (``:param x:`` inside directives).
  - Section headings in :rst:dir:`only` directives are now correctly
    handled.
  - Added ``emphasize-lines`` option to source code directives.
  - #678: C++ domain now supports superclasses.

* HTML builder:

  - Added ``pyramid`` theme.
  - #559: ::`html_add_permalinks` is now a string giving the
    text to display in permalinks.
  - #259: HTML table rows now have even/odd CSS classes to enable
    "Zebra styling".
  - #554: Add theme option ``sidebarwidth`` to the basic theme.

* Other builders:

  - #516: Added new value of the ::`latex_show_urls` option to
    show the URLs in footnotes.
  - #209: Added ::`text_newlines` and ::`text_sectionchars`
    config values.
  - Added ::`man_show_urls` config value.
  - #472: linkcheck builder: Check links in parallel, use HTTP HEAD
    requests and allow configuring the timeout.  New config values:
    ::`linkcheck_timeout` and ::`linkcheck_workers`.
  - #521: Added ::`linkcheck_ignore` config value.
  - #28: Support row/colspans in tables in the LaTeX builder.

* Configuration and extensibility:

  - #537: Added ::`nitpick_ignore`.
  - #306: Added `env-get-outdated` event.
  - :meth:`.Application.add_stylesheet` now accepts full URIs.

* Autodoc:

  - #564: Add ::`autodoc_docstring_signature`.  When enabled (the
    default), autodoc retrieves the signature from the first line of the
    docstring, if it is found there.
  - #176: Provide ``private-members`` option for autodoc directives.
  - #520: Provide ``special-members`` option for autodoc directives.
  - #431: Doc comments for attributes can now be given on the same line
    as the assignment.
  - #437: autodoc now shows values of class data attributes.
  - autodoc now supports documenting the signatures of
    ``functools.partial`` objects.

* Other extensions:

  - Added the :mod:`sphinx.ext.mathjax` extension.
  - #443: Allow referencing external graphviz files.
  - Added ``inline`` option to graphviz directives, and fixed the
    default (block-style) in LaTeX output.
  - #590: Added ``caption`` option to graphviz directives.
  - #553: Added :rst:dir:`testcleanup` blocks in the doctest extension.
  - #594: ::`trim_doctest_flags` now also removes ``<BLANKLINE>``
    indicators.
  - #367: Added automatic exclusion of hidden members in inheritance
    diagrams, and an option to selectively enable it.
  - Added ::`pngmath_add_tooltips`.
  - The math extension displaymath directives now support ``name`` in
    addition to ``label`` for giving the equation label, for compatibility
    with Docutils.

* New locales:

  - #221: Added Swedish locale.
  - #526: Added Iranian locale.
  - #694: Added Latvian locale.
  - Added Nepali locale.
  - #714: Added Korean locale.
  - #766: Added Estonian locale.

* Bugs fixed:

  - #778: Fix "hide search matches" link on pages linked by search.
  - Fix the source positions referenced by the "viewcode" extension.



