


.. _vinay_sajip_12_july_2013_20h11:

===============================
Vinay Sajip 12 july 2013 20h11
===============================


::

    Vinay Sajip <vinay_sajip@yahoo.co.uk> via python.org 
    à:   Distutils-Sig@python.org
    date:    12 juillet 2013 20:11
    objet:   Re: [Distutils] PEP 439 and pip bootstrap updated::


Donald Stufft writes::

    > Maybe I misunderstood your point :) I thought you were saying that by
    > installing pip using setup.py install we are "blessing" setup.py install
    > again? I was saying we don't need to do that.

Okay, I see. I'm used to comments referring to points directly above them,
and my comment about blessings was at the end of my post.

I meant that pip itself, and not just the bootstrap, uses "setup.py
install". I would have thought that pip don't need no steenking blessing
from anyone :-), but that's what the PEP is about, after all.

> I'm not overly found of bootstrapping setuptools itself, but I think
> unless pip comes along and bundles setuptools like it has done distlib
> it's a nesceary evil right now. Ideally In the future we can move things

But aren't you in favour of getting the latest version of setuptools and pip
each time?

> to where setuptools is just a build tool and isn't something needed at
> install time unless you're doing a build.

That "unless" - that stops the clean separation between build and install
which wheel enables, and which would be a Good Thing to encourage.

> I generally agree that a packaging library is the type of item that
> belongs in a stdlib, I don't think it belongs in there *yet*. We can work
> around it not being there, and that means we can be more agile about it
> and evolve the tooling till we are happy with them instead of trying to
> get it in as quickly as possible to make things easier in the short term
> and possibly harder in the long term.

Oh, I agree there's no sense in rushing things. But how do we know when
we're happy enough (or not) with something?  When we try it out, that's when
we can form an opinion - not before. It's been a good while since I first
announced distil, both as a test-bed for distlib, but also as a POC for
better user experiences with packaging. 

Apart from Paul Moore (thanks, Paul!), I've had precious little specific 
feedback from anyone here (and believe me, I'd welcome adverse feedback if 
it's warranted). 

It could all be a steaming pile of the proverbial, or the best thing since sliced
proverbials, but there's no way to know. Of course there are good reasons
for this - we are all busy people. Inertia, thy ways are many :-)
